# StatusCheck
Tools to quickly check the status of a large number of IPs

Built as a class so you can import the functionalty into other projects but intended to be run stand-alone.

# Genral Use
## Arguments
When run from a command line there are serveral optional arguments. Multiple arguments can be run at the same time.
| Short | Long/Name | Function | 
| ----- | --------- | ----------------- |
| `-t` | `--title` | Set custom title for the output table |
| `-s` | `--single` | Activates Single IP Mode. Must be followed by a valid IP address| 
| `-r`| `--recheck` | Re-Checks the last IP(s) scanned |
| `-m` | `--manual` | Manual Enter the IPs, user will be prompted for each IP to check |
| `-w` | `--watch` | Activate Watch Mode |
| `-i` | `--interval` | Set Watch Mode Interval |
| `-p` | `--ports` | Activate Port Mode |
| `-f` | `--filter` | Filter Results |
| `-e` | `--export` | Export Results as .csv |

## Usage
If run with no arguments, the script will output the following
```
> statusCheck.py
> [+] Copy the Table
```
The script will wait until the user copies the desired Device list from a spreadsheet. The List should contain 2 columns, the left column being the Device name to display and the right column being the IP address to scan. (See Port mode section for column contents when in port mode)

Once the list has been copied the script will check each IP and report the status. After all IPs have been checked the full list and online statistics will be displayed.

## Single IP Mode
The `-s` argument should be followed by a valid IP address. When run the script will imediatly run a check on that IP and output the result.

## Manual Mode
If run with the `-m` argument, the script will prompt the user to enter as may IPs as they want. Each IP should be followed by the enter key. To finish entering IPs press enter without entering an IP.

## Watch Mode
If run with the `-w` argument, instead of only checking each IP once, the script will continue to run until all IPs are online or the script is stopped manually with `Ctrl+C`. The `.watchCycle` variable controls how many seconds the script will wait after checking the last IP before it starts checking again. The `-i` or `--interval` argument allows you to set the cycle of how often the script will wait betweeen checks.

## Repeat Mode
All scan lists are stored in .json format in file. The default filename is `mem_statusCheck.json` and will be created automatically on first launch. You can change the filename with the `.memoryFilename` variable. If the `-r` argument is included, the script will automatically take the contents of that file and use that as the list to scan.

## Port Mode
If run with the `-p` argument, the script will run in Port Mode. Port Mode allows you to scan multiple ports on the same outside IP of a remote network. When port mode is activated the user will be promted for the base IP which will be stored in the class. When the user copies the device list the first column should still contain the device name, but the second column should contain the port number only. The port will automatically be appended to the base IP when scanning.

## Result Filter
The `-f` argument must be followed by either `Online` or `Offline`. The script will run as normal utiziling all other arugments, but when finished only the devices with the specified filter will be shown. The statistics page will show the same database wide statistics.

## Export Result
The `-e` argument will export the results of the scan once complete. The resulting file will be placed in the same directory as the script and will be named according to the `-t` Table Title argument plus the current date and time. If the `-t` argument was not provided the Filename will be 'StatusCheck Result' plus the current date and time.

## Project Mode (BETA)
Project mode allows you to pre-configure groups of IP addresses and device names. This this removes the need for an external spreadsheet of devices and names. Currently the only way to run Project mode is by setting the `project` argument when calling the `Scanner` class. You should pass a string of the filename of an associated `.json` file generated by the `StatusCheck_BuildProjectDB.py` script.

This feature is freshly in Beta so documentation and updates to come. The goal is to eventually wrap all related functionality into the main `StatusCheck.py` script.

### Feature ToDos
| Task | Status |
| ------------------------------- | -------|
| Build Core Project Mode Functionality | Done |
| Update UI for Project Section Selection | In Progress |
| Integrate DB Builder into main Script | In Progress |
| Add Functionality to Edit Exisitng Project files | Not Started |
| Add Argument to Activate Project Mode | Not Started |
| ~~Add ping as a backup meathod of detecting device~~ | Done |

# Dependencies
This script relies on the following dependencies.
| Package |
| ------- |
| [rich](https://github.com/Textualize/rich) |
| [pyperclip](https://pypi.org/project/pyperclip/) |
| [requests](https://pypi.org/project/requests/) |
| [keyboard](https://pypi.org/project/keyboard/) |
